Jesse Wesson: Hi,
my name is Jesse,
and I'm an engineer
on the Xcode Cloud team.
Today, we're going to talk about
how to connect
your Xcode project
and source code
to Xcode Cloud using cloud
and self-hosted source code
management tools.
We're going to start
by doing a brief intro
to source control management
and how it can help you
be more productive.
Then we'll cover how Xcode Cloud
accesses and uses
your source code.
We'll then focus on how to use
Xcode Cloud with a self-hosted
source code management tool
like GitHub Enterprise.
We'll finish up by going over
some common
project maintenance steps.
Let's get started with a brief
intro to source control
and why you
may want to adopt it.
Continuous integration tools
like Xcode Cloud
and source control levels up
your development practices,
helping you
to take on the complexity
of feature development
and accelerate your delivery
of high-quality apps
to the App Store.
Let's go over
a couple of ways
source control can help
your development work.
One of the benefits is that it
tracks your changes over time,
so you can try something out,
but always go back
and restart
from a previous change.
Source control can also help you
when you need to context switch.
In this example, we're working
on our next major release,
but we just received
a bug report
that we want to address.
Source control allows you
to easily go back
to your released version
and create a new branch
where you can make
the needed bug fix.
Git is one of the most commonly
used source control systems
and is fully integrated
into Xcode and Xcode Cloud.
Source control
management providers,
also known
as SCM providers,
have created great platforms
to host your Git repositories
and help you collaborate
with others.
Xcode Cloud works with
the three main SCM providers:
BitBucket, GitHub, and GitLab.
You can integrate Xcode Cloud
with these SCM providers
to create workflows
that respond to events,
like when you push changes
to a branch
or you create and update
a pull request.
To learn more about this,
check out "Meet Xcode Cloud"
from WWDC21.
Let's check out how Xcode Cloud
accesses and uses
your source code.
Xcode Cloud was designed
with privacy and security
at its core.
Your data is encrypted
in transit and at rest,
using industry-standard
strong encryption protocols.
This includes the encryption
of all your build artifacts.
The foundation of Xcode Cloud's
privacy and security
is our ephemeral
build environments,
which are protected by strong
and secure isolation boundaries.
For source access,
Xcode Cloud is using
secure HTTPS connections
to communicate
with your SCM providers,
which we'll go through next.
Let's dig into how the Xcode
Cloud source code flow works.
Every time a workflow runs
and your build is started,
Xcode Cloud creates one of these
temporary environments.
Before anything
can be started, though,
your source code is pulled down
to this temporary environment.
Xcode Cloud does this by
performing a git clone operation
using your remote repository
on the configured SCM host.
Once this completes,
then the build action
can be started and any custom
CI scripts you've included
in your repository will be run.
For more information on custom
CI scripts, check out
"Create Practical Workflows
in Xcode Cloud" from WWDC23.
Now let's go through
how we connect
Xcode Cloud
to GitHub Enterprise.
Whether your project
is hosted in the cloud
or is self-hosted,
Xcode Cloud
will guide you
through the onboarding steps
to connect
to your source repository.
This includes granting
Xcode Cloud
access to your SCM provider,
which takes just a couple of
clicks through these web pages.
Self-hosted projects
need a bit more information,
which we'll detail next.
For this,
we're using GitHub Enterprise
to host the Backyard Birds app.
You can get started
with onboarding
by clicking on "Get Started"
in the Cloud tab.
This will start
the onboarding dialog,
where you'll first be asked
to choose the app or framework
you want to connect.
After we select
the Backyard Birds app,
we'll be given a chance
to customize our first workflow.
We're going to stick with the
default one for this example.
After choosing the workflow,
we'll need to grant access
to our project
on the SCM provider.
By clicking on Grant Access,
Xcode will open up
App Store Connect
in our web browser.
In App Store Connect,
you'll be asked
which SCM provider you're using.
Since we're using
GitHub Enterprise,
let's choose that one.
It'll then take you
through the steps
to grant access
to your SCM provider.
In order for Xcode Cloud
to communicate
with self-hosted SCM providers,
some configuration is needed.
The steps will vary
with each SCM provider.
As we're using GitHub
Enterprise,
we need to install
the Xcode Cloud GitHub app
on our server.
Oh, it looks like we hit
a connection issue.
This can happen when your SCM
instance --
in this case
our GitHub Enterprise server --
is not accessible
to Xcode Cloud.
In order for Xcode Cloud
to interact
with your SCM provider,
it needs to connect
using Secure HTTPS
over port 443.
This means we need to update our
server and network configuration
to allow connections
from the Apple-owned and managed
IP address range.
Inbound HTTPS traffic
will be configurable
in the cloud provider settings
you're using to host
your SCM instance.
The IP address ranges
are listed in our
"Requirements for using
Xcode Cloud documentation."
Once we've updated
those settings,
we can pick up where we left off
and authorize
the Xcode Cloud GitHub app.
We then need to pick
which repositories
Xcode Cloud
will have access to.
In this example,
we're choosing all repositories,
and now we click Install.
Success!
Xcode Cloud is connected
to our self-hosted
GitHub Enterprise instance.
And this is now reflected
in Xcode as well.
We can now create
any number of workflows
to build, test,
and deploy our app.
As long as your SCM provider
doesn't change,
you won't have to go through
these steps again.
However, as your project
grows and evolves,
you may need to change
where your source is hosted.
There's a couple of steps needed
to help keep
Xcode Cloud connected.
In the case where
your whole project has moved
to a new SCM provider,
you can update
the primary repository
for your product.
From the Settings page
for your Xcode Cloud product,
you can click on
the More Options button
and then click
Change URL.
When changed from here,
this will update
all of your Xcode Cloud
workflows,
so we'll ask you
to confirm this.
You can then enter the new URL
for your source repository
and click Next.
Your primary repository
is now set
to this new source repository.
Sometimes you may want to change
the source repository
for just one workflow.
You can do this
from the Workflow Editor,
which can be found
under the More button
on the Manage Workflows page.
From the Workflow Editor,
under Primary Repository,
you have the option to change it
for this specific workflow.
Here, you can enter the URL
of your new repository.
And that's it!
With these couple of steps,
you can keep Xcode Cloud
connected to your project.
Xcode Cloud and source control
are great partners
that help to accelerate your
delivery of high-quality apps.
We went over how it connects
to GitHub Enterprise,
but it also works great
with cloud-based
and self-hosted
source repositories
on BitBucket, GitHub,
and GitLab.
When these tools are combined,
they can take work
off of your plate and allow you
to focus on the things
that are most important
to you and your customers.
Thanks and happy coding!